Name - Muawiya Mohammed
Day - 
course - Python ðŸ““ âœï¸

## Indexing
---
Help us to access the list and the string in variable.
index divided in to two
###### 1. Normal index 
- starts from 0 have end up to the last list or string.
###### 2. Negative index
- starts from higher negative to negative one.
- The first term have high negative and the last one is negative one.


## slicing
------
similar to index syntax and that extract portion from the list.
```
Syntax = My list[start: stop: step]
```
Python use default 1 if we doesn't insert the value of them. and also the stopping default is final value.

## user input handling
----
there are two methods 
### 1. input function 
syntax -- var=input('text you like to display:')
will accept input and stores on variable
you can also change input type / var=int(input())
### 2. By argument
This help us to get the input from the command lines 
Shell: python gtst.py arg1 arg2 arg3
```
syntax - import sys
          name = sys.argv[1]
          print(f'hello{name}!')
```

## operator
---
Operators are special symbols that perform operations on variables and values. , 
There are lots of operators type on python: 
a. Arithmetic operators (+,-, * , / , % ,** ,//)
b. Assignment Operators (=,== ,+=,-=,/=,%=... )
c. Comparison Operators (>.<.=>,=<,)
d. Logical Operators (& , || , not)
e. Bitwise Operators (....)
f. Special Operators (...)

## indentation
---
indentation is a whitespace which python use for some function especially for if conditions...
if there is no proper indentation error happen.

## if - else condition
----
in python there are 3 forms of if - else statement.
 1. If statement 
 2. if ...else statement
 3. if ..elif..else statement

### if statement
---



